---
slug: "the-beauty-of-human-interactions-sisterhood"
title: "THE BEAUTY OF HUMAN INTERACTIONS: SISTERHOOD"
description: "This heartfelt piece explores the essence of sisterhood beyond blood ties—celebrating the warmth, unity, and strength found in female friendships and solidarity."
category: ['Basic Feminism']
imageUrl: '/Sisterhood.webp'
author: 'Herbode'
date: 'February 17, 2024'
---

Sisterhood is important to women everywhere. And one of the wonderful things about sisterhood is that it is not always based on biological ties–your friends are your sisters, the stranger you met at a mall and bonded over similar taste in fashion, anime or other interests is your sister, the girl that stopped you in the middle of the road to compliment you or tell you that you have lipstick in your teeth is your sister, that one twitter mutual that always checks up you when you are not online for more than 3 days is your sister. The beauty of sisterhood lies in its openness, warmth, and ability to comfort you like a warm blanket on a wet day. In honor of Galentines week, here are some of the many importance of sisterhood:

- **DEFYING THE NORM(S):** It is no secret that women are made to see each other as ‘competition’ even when they are not in the same line of work or studying the same major. A woman in another state, country, heck even in another continent, is your ‘competition’ as long as a man is involved. We are conditioned to think of other women as possible challenges to our “womanhood”. But it really is not so. Other women are not competition unless you are aiming for the same positions in your field of expertise, and even at that, it is merely a healthy competition that is common and can be good for your mental and physical well-being. A true girl’s girl understands that all the women in her immediate vicinity are her sisters, regardless of the circumstances, and she should not feel any form of rivalry with them because they are all on an equal footing.

- **TO BUILD STRONG AND LONGLASTING BONDS:** Look around you, look at the friends that you have, think back to the first time you met each and every one of them, think of the times that they have come through for you like no one else have, think of the secrets that they have kept, the times that they have encouraged all your bizarre dreams, think of the times that they listened intently to your goals, think of the times that they have told you how proud they are of you, and think of the love that they have shown you in all of the times that you have known them and now think of how you have reciprocated that love, respect and fondness, that right there, is the beauty of sisterhood. The number of times that you have shown each other love that is stronger than anybody can fathom or comprehend, the number of times that you have called one another after a long day to offload your stress and worries, the calls that have lasted for hours, the times that you have made one another’s birthdays so special that you burst into tears because that is the only way you can express your gratitude. Your gratitude for a love and bond so strong you are overwhelmed. Your gratitude for ***sisterhood***. That is the essence of being a true girl’s girl; establishing a relationship that lasts a lifetime and beyond.

- **SENSE OF BELONGING:** Building bonds helps us feel a sense of belonging, like we have finally found our people, where we can be free to express ourselves without discrimination, where we can cope with hardship because our girlfriends are cheering us on. You can read more on the benefits of having sense of belonging [here](blog.calm.com/blog/belonging-science-mental-health)

- **FEMINISM:** Not every girl’s girl is a feminist but every feminist is a girl’s girl. Although Feminism was created as a direct response to the patriarchy, we can all agree that the movement would not have been successful without women solidarity. Women solidarity sowed the seed of feminism, which grew to bring forth women liberation. As long as the seed of sisterhood is watered and grows, feminism will continue to bloom. 

- **TO BUILD A COMMUNITY:** ***Herbode*** is a result of sisterhood. **PadHer, WithLove** is a result of sisterhood. **Siren** is a result of sisterhood. The many women who have volunteered to make these organizations more than just NGOs but a _community_ where women are comfortable and willing to share their stories and resources to help grow these NGOs so as to give back to, teach and expose young Nigerian girls to a better world, is a result of women who understand the significance of sisterhood. Women who, because they have a unique understanding of the link, would stop at nothing to ensure that young girls and other women in their immediate vicinity experience the love and togetherness that comes with being a girl’s girl.


In the spirit of feminism and sisterhood, it is crucial to remember to always be your sister’s keeper and spread love and happiness to women around you. Happy Galentines week to you, from Herbode.